---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
Hi! I am a Research Fellow in the 
[Department of Economics, Social Studies, Applied Mathematics, and Statistics (ESOMAS) at the University of Turin, Italy](https://www.esomas-en.unito.it/do/home.pl), and I recently obtained my Ph.D. in Economics from the [University of Pittsburgh](https://econ.pitt.edu). I am originally from Chile, where I graduated with a BA in Economics and Business and an MA in Economics from Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile.

I am a microeconomic theorist working on mechanism and market design. My current research focuses on: (1) studying agents' and firms' behavior in settings with information frictions (e.g., asymmetric information, search costs, choice overload, inertia), especially in the presence of market power, (2) what types of regulation can help mitigate inefficiencies in markets where those frictions cannot be fully eliminated or directly controlled, and (3) how economic and political institutions interact in these types of markets. I'm particularly interested in applications that study the digital economy and online marketplaces.

[Link to CV](https://nrpastrian.github.io/files/cv.pdf)



## Research
Working papers:
* Product Line Design with Frictions. [[Paper]](https://nrpastrian.github.io/files/pastrian_jmp.pdf)
  <details>
  <summary>Abstract</summary>
  
  <p>We study a monopolist's product line design problem with search frictions. Consumers only evaluate a random subset of price-quality pairs in the menu, limiting the monopolist's ability to perfectly match contracts to consumer types. This creates a tradeoff faced when expanding the product line between extracting more rents from different consumer types and increased search costs. We show that when consumers are limited to seeing a single random contract out of the menu, then the optimal menu for the monopolist always contains a single offer. When consumers observe more than one offer, we show that a balanced menu with two contracts that are seen by a consumer with the same probability is never optimal. The monopolist rather has an incentive to "bias" the menu so that one of the offers is observed more often. Using an unbalanced menu has an impact on the quality provided to low valuation consumers, either reinforcing or reducing the distortions generated by asymmetric information. We discuss the consequences on quality provision, as well as the welfare effects of these distortions.</p></details>

* Full Surplus Extraction and Consideration Sets. [[Paper]](https://nrpastrian.github.io/files/full_surplus_extraction_consideration_sets.pdf)
  <details>
  <summary>Abstract</summary>
  
  <p>We examine the surplus extraction problem in a mechanism design setting with consideration sets. We model consideration sets as the subset of types a particular type considers as possible deviations. Our model is built upon a discrete version of the reduced mechanism design problem in McAfee and Reny (1992), and the partially verifiable types in Green and Laffont (1986) for the modeling of consideration sets. We identify the inverse consideration sets as the key elements to determine whether full surplus extraction is feasible or not, and characterize the conditions that guarantee full surplus extraction to be feasible in this setting. We show that the independence condition identified by Cremer and McLean (1988) remains sufficient for full surplus extraction in our setting but could be relaxed to obtain a more general characterization. Finally, we discuss some applications and limitations of our model.</p></details>


Work in progress:
* Reforming Auctions with Behavioral Bidders
* Regional Disparities in State Capacity and Voting for Decentralization Reforms (with [Martin Besfamille](https://economia.uc.cl/?profesor=martin-besfamille) and [Amedeo Piolatto](https://sites.google.com/site/piolatto/))

## Teaching

University of Pittsburgh
* Instructor for Economic Modeling Skills. Fall 2023, Spring 2024
* Instructor for Intermediate Microeconomics. Summer 2023
* Instructor for Game Theory. Summer 2021, Summer 2022

* TA for Healthcare Economics (MBA). Summer 2024 
* TA for Microeconomic Theory 2 (PhD). Spring 2023
* TA for Introduction to Microeconomic Theory (undergraduate). Spring 2020, Fall 2020, Fall 2022
* TA for Microeconomic Theory 1 (PhD). Fall 2019

Universidad Adolfo Ibañez School of Engineering

* Instructor for Principles of Economics (undergraduate). Spring 2018
* Instructor for Microeconomics (undergraduate). Spring 2018


